eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide

eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
1
Table of Contents
1 Related Documents ........................................................................................................ 3
2 Introducing the eBUS SDK Python API ....................................................................... 4
2.1 About the eBUS SDK Python API ............................................................................. 4
2.2 eBUS SDK Licenses .................................................................................................. 4
3 Installing the eBUS SDK ................................................................................................. 6
3.1 System Requirements .............................................................................................. 6
3.2 Installing the eBUS Python package on Windows................................................ 10
3.3 Installation of eBUS-Python dependency packages............................................. 10
4 Using the Sample Code ................................................................................................13
4.1 Overview: System Components............................................................................. 13
4.2 Description of Samples .......................................................................................... 13
5 Code Walkthrough: Acquiring Images with the eBUS SDK...................................16
5.1 Accessing the Python Sample Code ..................................................................... 16
5.2 Classes Used in the PvStreamSample .................................................................. 17
5.3 Module Imports ...................................................................................................... 17
5.4 PvStreamSample .................................................................................................... 18
5.5 The connect_to_device Function........................................................................... 18
5.6 The open_stream Function .................................................................................... 19
5.7 The configure_stream Function............................................................................. 20
5.8 The configure_stream_buffers Function............................................................... 21
5.9 The acquire_images Function................................................................................ 22
6 Troubleshooting............................................................................................................28
6.1 Troubleshooting Tips ............................................................................................. 28
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 -  – 2
Document Number and Revisions
Document ID: QSG-0010
Revisi
on
Reason for Revision Date
5.1 Minor Release with Title 
modification to include 6.x.
March 2026
5.0 Final Release with eBUS 
SDK 6.6
December 2025
4.0 Final Release with eBUS 
SDK 6.5.1
June 2024
3.0 Final Release with eBUS 
SDK 6.5.0
May 2024
2.0 Final Release with eBUS 
SDK 6.4.0
February 2024
What this Guide Provides
This guide provides you with the information you need to install the eBUS SDK (which lets you use 
the eBUS SDK Python API) and an overview of the system requirements.
You can use the Python sample applications to see how the Python API classes and methods work 
together for device configuration and control, unicast and multicast communication, image and 
data acquisition, image display, and diagnostics. You can also use the Python sample code to verify 
that your system is working properly (that is, determine whether there is a problem with your code or 
your equipment).
You can also consult the eBUS SDK Python API Help files for further information regarding the 
Python API itself. These help files are HTML based. On Windows, they can be found under the Python 
install directory:
PYTHON_INSTALLATION_PATH\Lib\site-packages\ebus-python\docs\index.html
On Linux, these files are co-located with the standard eBUS SDK files:
/opt/pleora/ebus_sdk/<distribution targeted>/share/doc/python/index.html
For troubleshooting information and technical support contact information Pleora Technologies, see 
the last few chapters of this guide.
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Related Documents – 3
1 Related Documents
The eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide is complemented by the following Pleora Technologies
documents, which are available on the Pleora Technologies Support Center (supportcenter.pleora.com):
 eBUS Player Quick Start Guide
 eBUS Player User Guide
 eBUS SDK Python API Help File
 eBUS SDK for Linux Quick Start Guide
 Getting Started with eBUS Edge
 eBUS SDK Licensing Overview Knowledge Base Article
 Configuring Your Computer and Network Adapters for Best Performance Knowledge Base Article
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Introducing the eBUS SDK Python API – 4
2 Introducing the eBUS SDK Python API
This chapter describes the eBUS SDK Python API, which is a feature of the eBUS SDK that allows you to 
develop custom vision systems to acquire and transmit images and data using Python.
2.1 About the eBUS SDK Python API
eBUS SDK is built on a single API to receive video over GigE, 10 GigE, and USB 3.0 that is portable 
across Windows, and Linux operating systems. With an eBUS SDK Seat License, designers can develop 
production-ready software applications in the same environment as their end-users, and quickly and 
easily modify applications for different media, while avoiding supporting multiple APIs from various 
vendors. Compared to camera vendor provided SDKs, eBUS frees developers from being tied to a 
specific camera, and instead they can choose the device that is best for the application.
2.1.1 eBUS Edge for Sensor Devices
eBUS Edge is a software implementation of a full device level GigE Vision transmitter, without requiring 
any additional hardware. Adding eBUS Edge to a CPU's software stack turns it into a fully compliant 
GigE Vision device that supports image transmission and enables the device to respond to control 
requests from a host controller. eBUS Edge is GigE Vision and GenICam compliant, meaning end-users 
can use any standards compliant third-party image processing system. eBUS Edge currently supports 
the GigE Vision standard.
2.1.2 eBUS Receive for Host Applications
eBUS Receive manages high-speed reception of images or data into buffers for hand-off to the end 
application for further analysis. Developers can write applications that run on a host computer to 
seamlessly control and configure an unlimited number of GigE Vision or USB3 Vision and GenICam 
compliant sensors.
The eBUS Universal Pro driver reduces CPU usage when receiving images or data, leaving more 
processing power for analysis and inspection applications while helping meet latency and throughput 
requirements for real-time applications. The eBUS Universal Pro driver is easily integrated into third-
party processing software to bring performance advantages to end-user applications.
2.2 eBUS SDK Licenses
Some components of the eBUS SDK require a Pleora license to remove transmit and receive limitations.
2.2.1 eBUS Receiver License
When a license is not present and you are receiving images from third-party GigE Vision or USB3 Vision 
transmitter technology, an embossed Pleora watermark will appear on the images that you receive. In 
addition, you will not be able to receive the GigE Vision or USB3 Vision raw data payload type from the 
transmitting device.
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Introducing the eBUS SDK Python API – 5
2.2.2 GigE Vision Devices Created with the eBUS Edge API
When an eBUS Edge license is not present on the eBUS Edge application side, the eBUS receiver 
application will automatically disconnect from the eBUS Edge device after 15 minutes. In addition, the 
eBUS Edge device will report hard-coded device information (such as the device model name), instead 
of your organization’s customized information.
2.2.3 Activating an eBUS SDK License
For detailed information about licensing, including details on activating a license, see the eBUS SDK 
Licensing Overview Knowledge Base Article available on the Pleora Technologies Support Center at 
supportcenter.pleora.com.

eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Installing the eBUS SDK – 6
3 Installing the eBUS SDK
eBUS SDK Python is packaged differently for Windows compared with Linux based systems. On Linux 
systems, eBUS SDK Python is incorporated into the traditional eBUS SDK install package and is 
therefore installed at the same time. On Windows, eBUS SDK Python is a stand-alone package that 
needs to be installed separately after eBUS SDK has been installed.
3.1 System Requirements
Ensure the computer on which you install the eBUS Player Toolkit or eBUS SDK meets the following 
recommended requirements:
At least one Gigabit Ethernet NIC (if you are using GigE Vision devices) or at least one USB 3.0 port (if you are 
using USB3 Vision devices).
 The instructions in this chapter are based on the Windows 10 or Windows 11 operating 
system. The steps may vary depending on your computer’s operating system.
You can access installation files from the Pleora Support Center at supportcenter.pleora.com.
Microsoft Windows:
An appropriate compiler or integrated development environment (IDE):
 eBUS SDK 7.0: Visual Studio 2022 and 2019.
 eBUS SDK 6.5 or earlier : Visual Studio 2019, 2017, 2015, 2013, 2012, and 2010.
 Sample project files (.vcxproj) are compatible with Visual Studio 2010 (and later). When you 
open them with Visual Studio for the first time, you have the option of upgrading
For supported USB 3.0 host controller chipsets, consult the eBUS SDK Release Notes, available 
on the Pleora Support Center.
 Depending on the incoming and outgoing bandwidth requirements, as well as the performance of 
each NIC, you may require multiple NICs. For example, even though Gigabit Ethernet is full duplex (that 
is, it manage 1 Gbps incoming and 1 Gbps outgoing), the computer’s PCIe bus may not have enough 
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Installing the eBUS SDK – 7
One of the following operating systems:
 eBUS SDK 7.0: 
 For Microsoft Windows:
 Microsoft Windows 11, 64-bit
 Microsoft Windows 10, 64-bit
 eBUS SDK 6.5 or earlier :
 For Microsoft Windows:
 Microsoft Windows 11, 64-bit
 Microsoft Windows 10, 32-bit or 64-bit
 Microsoft Windows 8.1, 32-bit or 64-bit
 Microsoft Windows 7 with Service Pack 1 (or later), 32-bit or 64-bit
 For the x86 Linux platform:
 eBUS SDK 7.0:  
 Ubuntu 24.04 LTS 64-bit
 Ubuntu 22.04 LTS 64-bit
 Ubuntu 20.04 LTS 64-bit
 RHEL 9, 64-bit
 CentOS Stream 9, 64-bit
 eBUS SDK 6.5 or earlier :
 Ubuntu 22.04 LTS 64-bit: Qt 5.15.3
 Ubuntu 20.04 LTS 64-bit: Qt 5.12.8
 Ubuntu 18.04 LTS 64-bit Qt 5.9.5
 RHEL 8.7, 64-bit: Qt 5.15.3
 CentOS Stream 8, 64-bit: Qt 5.15.3
 For the Linux for ARM platform:
 eBUS SDK 7.0:  
bandwidth to support this. This means that while your NIC can — in theory — accept four cameras at 
200 Mbps each incoming, and output a 750 Mbps stream on a single NIC, the NIC you choose may not 
support this level of performance.
For 7.0, QT 6.8.0 is included and deployed with eBUS packages for all 
x86_64 Linux platforms.
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Installing the eBUS SDK – 8
 NVIDIA Jetson AGX Xavier, Jetson Xavier NX, Jetson AGX Xavier Industrial, Jetson 
AGX Orin, Jetson Orin NX running Jetpack 5.1.x which x is between 0 and 4. (Ubuntu 
20.04) 
 All NVIDIA Jetson Orin modules and developer kits running Jetpack 6.2 (Ubuntu 22.04)
 Raspberry Pi 4B , Raspberry Pi 5 running Raspberry Pi OS (64 bits) (Debian aarch64 
GNU/Linux 13 Trixie) 
 eBUS SDK 6.5 or earlier : 
 NVIDIA Jetson TX2, Jetson Nano, Jetson Xavier NX, Jetson AGX Xavier, Jetson TX2 
NX running JetPack 4.6 (Ubuntu 18.04)
 NVIDIA Jetson AGX Xavier, Jetson Xavier NX, Jetson AGX Orin, Jetson Orin NX running 
Jetpack 5.1.x which x is between 0 and 4. (Ubuntu 20.04) 
 All NVIDIA Jetson Orin modules and developer kits running Jetpack 6.0 (Ubuntu 22.04)
 Raspberry Pi 4 , Raspberry Pi 5 running Raspberry Pi OS (64 bits) (Debian aarch64 
GNU/Linux 12 bookworm) 
According to the Linux/ARM platform, we provide eBUS Python for the stock Python version of the OS:
 eBUS SDK 7.0: 
 Ubuntu 24.04 Desktop (64-bit), eBUS Python for Python 3.12 is installed with the SDK
 Ubuntu 22.04 Desktop (64-bit), eBUS Python for Python 3.10 is installed with the SDK
 Ubuntu 22.04 for ARM (64-bit), eBUS Python for Python 3.10 is installed with the SDK
 Ubuntu 20.04 Desktop (64-bit), eBUS Python for Python 3.8 is installed with the SDK
 Ubuntu 20.04 for ARM (64-bit), eBUS Python for Python 3.8 is installed with the SDK
 RHEL 9 (64-bit), eBUS Python for Python 3.9 is installed with the SDK
 CentOS 9 Stream (64-bit), eBUS Python for Python 3.9 is installed with the SDK
 Raspberry Pi Desktop (64-bit), eBUS Python for Python 3.13 is installed with the SDK.
 eBUS SDK 6.5 or earlier :
 Ubuntu 22.04 Desktop (64-bit), eBUS Python for Python 3.10 is installed with the SDK
 Ubuntu 22.04 for ARM (64-bit), eBUS Python for Python 3.10 is installed with the SDK
 Ubuntu 20.04 Desktop (64-bit), eBUS Python for Python 3.8 is installed with the SDK
 Ubuntu 20.04 for ARM (64-bit), eBUS Python for Python 3.8 is installed with the SDK
 Ubuntu 18.04 Desktop (64-bit), eBUS Python for Python 3.6 is installed with the SDK
 Ubuntu 18.04 for ARM (64-bit), eBUS Python for Python 3.6 is installed with the SDK
 RHEL 8.7 (64-bit), eBUS Python for Python 3.6 is installed with the SDK
 CentOS 8 Stream (64-bit), eBUS Python for Python 3.6 is installed with the SDK
 Raspberry Pi Desktop (64-bit), eBUS Python for Python 3.11 is installed with the SDK.
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Installing the eBUS SDK – 9
3.1.1 Python Releases for Windows
For more information see https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/
Only the latest of each minor version is officially supported. The following Windows versions are 
supported:
 Windows 8.1, 10, and 11: Python 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 3.10 and 3.11.
 Windows 7: Python 3.6, 3.7, and 3.8.
The following table indicates the Python releases for Windows applications:
Table 1: Supported Python releases for Windows Versions
Windows installer (64-bit) Windows 8.1 and later Windows 7
Python 3.11.7 Available Not Available
Python 3.10.9 Available Not Available
Python 3.9.13 Available Not Available
Python 3.8.10 Available Available
Python 3.7.9 Available Available
Python 3.6.8 Available Available
For non-default Python versions for different Linux ARM/x86 platforms, consult your 
Pleora support representative.
 Ensure that you uninstall any previous versions of eBUS SDK from your machine before 
installing eBUS SDK 7.x.
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Installing the eBUS SDK – 10
3.2 Installing the eBUS Python package on Windows
Since the eBUS SDK Python API is not part of the eBUS SDK on Windows, we must first install the base 
eBUS SDK using the Windows installation package, then install the appropriate eBUS Python package 
for the specific version of Python you are using. You can download the eBUS SDK and the associated 
eBUS Python packages from the Pleora Support Center at supportcenter.pleora.com.
3.3 Installation of eBUS-Python dependency packages
The following dependency packages are required for eBUS-Python:
1. eBUS SDK or eBUS Runtime with eBUS Edge
2. Python (3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 3.10 and/or 3.11)
3. pip
4. numpy
5. opencv-python (optional for some samples)
6. eBUS-Python
How to install Python on Windows
Installing and using Python on Windows is very simple. The installation procedure involves just three steps:
1. Download the binaries (Python Releases for Windows | org)
2. Run the executable installer.
3. Add Python to PATH environmental variables.
If you use the Linux operating system, you must install the eBUS SDK as superuser. For full 
details about installing the eBUS SDK for Linux, see the eBUS SDK for Linux Quick Start Guide, 
available at the Pleora Support Center (supportcenter.pleora.com).
IMPORTANT: 
If you use eBUS Runtime instead eBUS SDK on Windows to work with eBUS Python, you need to 
select eBUS Edge when installing eBUS Runtime.
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Installing the eBUS SDK – 11
How to upgrade pip on Windows
From a terminal, run the following command:
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
If you have only one Python package installed and you have added the Python in your PATH. You can call 
python everywhere.
If you have several Python packages installed, you should launch python from the installed location.
From a terminal, run the following command if you use python 3.8:
C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python38>python -m pip install --upgrade pip
How to install numpy on Windows
From a terminal, run the following command:
python -m pip install "numpy<2"
If you have several Python packages installed, you need to specify the python executable.
From a terminal run the following command with the default Python path, if you use python 3.8:
C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python38>python -m pip install "numpy<2"

eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Installing the eBUS SDK – 12
(optional) How to install opencv-python on Windows
From a terminal, run the following command:
python -m pip install "opencv-python<4" --prefer-binary
If you have several Python packages installed, you need to specify the python executable. From a terminal, 
run the following command with the default Python installation path, if you use python 3.8:
C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python38>python -m pip install "opencv-python<4" 
--prefer-binary
How to install eBUS-Python on Windows
From a terminal, run the following command:
python -m pip install <path of the package>\ebus_python-6.3.0-<build number>- py<python version>-none-
win_amd64.whl
If you have several Python packages installed, you need to specify the python executable. From a terminal, 
run the following command with the default Python installation path, if you use python 3.8:
C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python38\python -m pip install <path of the 
package>\ebus_python-6.3.0-<build number>-py38-none-win_amd64.whl
Location of installed eBUS-Python on Windows
C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python<Python version>\Lib\site-packages\ebus-
python
With the default installation path if you use python 3.8:
C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python38\Lib\site- packages\ebus-python
eBUS Python for Windows supports only numpy version 1.x.

eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Using the Sample Code – 13
4 Using the Sample Code
To illustrate how you can use the eBUS SDK Python API to acquire and transmit images, the SDK 
includes sample code that you can use. This chapter provides a description of the sample code.
Most of the code samples are UI-based. However, it is possible to perform any activity demonstrated in 
the samples programmatically.
4.1 Overview: System Components
The following illustration shows the components that are used, illustrating the relationship between the 
eBUS SDK, GigE Vision receivers, GigE Vision transmitters, and USB3 Vision transmitters.
4.2 Description of Samples
The following samples are available as Python samples in this release.
The following table lists the Python sample applications that are available. For more information 
about the C++ samples that are also available, see the eBUS SDK C++ API Quick Start Guide. For 
information about the C# and VB.NET samples that are also available, see the eBUS SDK .NET 
API Quick Start Guide.
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Using the Sample Code – 14
Table 2: Sample Code
Sample 
code
Function Type of application 
that is created
Getting Started
PvStreamS
ample
This “Hello World” sample shows you how to connect to a GigE 
Vision or USB3 Vision device, receive an image stream, stop 
streaming, and disconnect from the device.
Command line.
•       All platforms
Image Streaming
ReceiveMul
tiPart
This sample shows how to connect to a GigE Vision device and 
receive a stream of multi-part payload type. The images that are 
acquired are displayed on screen using different windows. The 
SoftDeviceGEVMultiPart sample can be used to instantiate a 
software GigE Vision Device with a multi-part interface
Command line.
•       All platforms
PvPipeline
Sample
This sample extends the "Hello World" PvStreamSample by showing 
how buffers are managed internally by the PvPipeline class. This 
removes some of the complexity of buffer management from the 
application when compared to the PvStream sample.
Command line.
•       All platforms
MultiSourc
e
This command line sample for GigE Vision devices shows you how 
to receive images from a GigE Vision device that has multiple 
streaming sources.
Command line.
•       All platforms
•       For GigE 
Vision devices only
ImageProc
essing
This sample illustrates how to acquire an image and process it using 
an external buffer to interface with a non-Pleora library. This is 
useful when you want to interface the eBUS SDK to popular third-
party SDKs for image processing or machine learning, such as 
OpenCV.
Command line.
•       All platforms
Discovery and Connection
DeviceFind
er
This sample shows how to detect and enumerate GigE Vision and 
USB3 Vision devices on the network.
Command line.
 All platforms
Connection
Recovery
This sample shows how to automatically recover from connectivity 
issues, such as accidental disconnects and power interruptions, to 
build more robustness into your eBUS SDK application.
Command line.
 All platforms
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Using the Sample Code – 15
Configuration and Event Monitoring
DeviceSeri
alPort
This sample shows how to send commands to a camera or other 
device that accepts serial input commands through a compatible 
Pleora iPORT video interface using the Pleora device's General 
Purpose Input/Output (GPIO) signals, including UART or BULK.
Command line.
 All platforms
GenICamP
arameters
This sample shows how to enumerate and display the GenICam 
features and settings of a GenICam- compatible device by 
discovering and accessing the features of the device's node map. 
The node map is built programmatically from the device’s GenICam 
XML file.
Command line.
 All platforms
EventSamp
le
This sample shows how to receive and handle events sent from 
USB3 Vision and GigE Vision devices including Pleora eBUS Edge 
through EVENT_CMD and EVENTDATA_CMD.
Command line.
 All platforms
eBUS Edge Code Samples
SoftDevice
GEVSimple
This sample shows how to create a basic software GigE Vision 
device with one streaming source and a single pixel type. A sample 
test pattern is generated as a streaming source.
Command line.
 All platforms
SoftDevice
GEV
This sample shows how to create a fully functioning software GigE 
Vision device with multiple streaming sources and fixed width and 
height pixel types. A sample test pattern is generated as a streaming 
source. This sample also illustrates how to implement custom 
GenApi features and device registers, as well as how to access the 
GVCP messaging channel to send events and chunk data.
Command line.
 All platforms
SoftDevice
GEVMultiP
art
This sample shows how to use PvSoftDeviceGEV to create a 
software GigE Vision multi-part transmitter device.
Command line.
 All platforms
SoftDevice
GEVChunk
Data
This sample shows how to create and run a Software GigE Vision 
device sending data using a payload of type ChunkData.
Command line.
 All platforms
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Code Walkthrough: Acquiring Images with the eBUS SDK – 16
5 Code Walkthrough: Acquiring Images with the eBUS SDK
This section walks you through the code contained in PvStreamSample. This sample illustrates how to 
detect available devices, connect to a device, and start an image stream.
5.1 Accessing the Python Sample Code
The Python sample code is available in the following locations:
 Windows
You can access the Python sample code here:
PYTHON_INSTALLATION_PATH\Lib\site-packages\ebus-python\samples
For example, you can use the following formatted text when accessing the Python sample code. This 
information applies to the default installation options available for Python 3.10 on Windows 11:
C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python310\Lib\site- packages\ebus-
python\samples
 Linux
You can access the Python sample code here:
opt/pleora/ebus_sdk/<distribution targeted>/share/samples/python/ebus
5.1.1 Required Items
The sample code requires that you have a GigE Vision device connected to a NIC on your computer or a 
USB3 Vision device connected to a USB 3.0 port on your computer.
You must copy the sample code to a location on your computer (such as your C: drive) before 
you open the sample code in your Visual Studio Code. On the Windows operating system, access 
to these directories is restricted.

eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Code Walkthrough: Acquiring Images with the eBUS SDK – 17
5.1.2 Windows and Linux Support
PvStreamSample can be used on the Windows and Linux operating systems. Platform-specific code is 
abstracted by PvSampleUtils.py, which is installed on your computer as part of the eBUS SDK.
5.2 Classes Used in the PvStreamSample
PvStreamSample uses the classes listed in the following table.
Table 3: Classes Used in the Sample
Class Description
PvDevic
eInfo
Used to access information about a device, such as its manufacturer information, protocol 
(either GigE Vision or USB3 Vision), serial number, ID, and version.
PvDevic
e
Used to connect to and control a device and initiate the image stream. Protocol and interface- 
specific functionality is available in two subclasses, PvDeviceGEV and PvDeviceU3V.
PvStrea
m
Provides access to the image stream. Like PvDevice, there are protocol and interface-specific 
subclasses, PvStreamGEV and PvStreamU3V.
PvBuffe
r
Represents a block of data from the device, such as an image.
PvResul
t
A simple class that represents the result of various eBUS SDK functions methods.
5.3 Module Imports
The following modules are required by the sample. Please note that the PvSampleUtils.py module 
provides some basic helper and multi-platform routines:
import numpy as np
import eBUS as eb
import lib.PvSampleUtils as psu
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Code Walkthrough: Acquiring Images with the eBUS SDK – 18
5.4 PvStreamSample
The PvStreamSample allows the user to select a device, connect to a device (connect_to_device), start the 
image stream (open_stream, configure_stream, configure_stream_buffers), and process the image stream 
(acquire_images). To perform these tasks, the following objects are required:
 A PvDeviceInfo object, which indicates the device that the user has selected for streaming.
 A PvDevice object, which allows the user to control the selected device.
 A PvStream object, which is used to receive the image stream for the selected device.
kb.start(), kb.getch() and kb.kbhit() are platform-independent helper functions. This function is 
provided in the PvSampleUtils module.
5.4.1 Python
print("PvStreamSample:")
connection_ID = psu.PvSelectDevice()
if connection_ID:
   device = connect_to_device(connection_ID)
   if device:
      stream = open_stream(connection_ID)
      if stream:
          configure_stream(device, stream)
          buffer_list = configure_stream_buffers(device, stream)
          acquire_images(device, stream)
          buffer_list.clear()
          # Close the stream
          print("Closing stream")
          stream.Close()
          eb.PvStream.Free(stream);
          # Disconnect the device
          print("Disconnecting device")
          device.Disconnect()
          eb.PvDevice.Free(device)
print("<press a key to exit>")
kb.start()
kb.getch()
kb.stop()
5.5 The connect_to_device Function
connect_to_device establishes a connection with the device.
GigE Vision and USB3 Vision devices are represented by different classes (PvDeviceGEV and 
PvDeviceU3V) and they share a parent class (PvDevice) that abstracts most of the differences. When 
possible, you should use a PvDevice object instead of a protocol-specific object to reduce code 
duplication. To create a PvDevice object from a PvDeviceInfo object without explicitly checking the 
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Code Walkthrough: Acquiring Images with the eBUS SDK – 19
protocol of the device, use the CreateAndConnect static factory method from the PvDevice class, which 
abstracts the device type.
A PvDevice object is returned and can now be used to control the device and initiate streaming.
5.5.1 Python
def connect_to_device(connection_ID):
      # Connect to the GigE Vision or USB3 Vision device
      print("Connecting to device.")
      result, device = eb.PvDevice.CreateAndConnect(connection_ID)
      if device == None:
           print(f"Unable to connect to device: {result.GetCodeString()} ({result.GetDescription()})")
      return device
5.6 The open_stream Function
open_stream initiates the image stream. Again, the sample uses a static factory method 
(CreateAndOpen) to create and open the PvStream object, which allows your application to support 
both GigE Vision and USB3 Vision devices.
A pointer to the PvStream object is returned and can now be used to receive images as PvBuffer 
objects.
It is important that objects allocated with CreateAndConnect be freed with PvDevice.Free, as 
shown later in the sample.
If it is not important for your application to support both GigE Vision and USB3 Vision devices 
(for example, your organization only uses devices of a particular type), you can call the GetType 
method of the PvDeviceInfo object (aDeviceInfo) to determine whether the device is GigE Vision 
or USB3 Vision. Then you could create a new PvDeviceGEV or PvDeviceU3V object and call the 
Connect method directly.
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Code Walkthrough: Acquiring Images with the eBUS SDK – 20
5.6.1 Python
def open_stream(connection_ID):
      # Open stream to the GigE Vision or USB3 Vision device
      print("Opening stream from device.")
      result, stream = eb.PvStream.CreateAndOpen(connection_ID)
      if stream == None:
          print(f"Unable to stream from device. {result.GetCodeString()} ({result.GetDescription()})")
return stream
5.7 The configure_stream Function
For most of this sample, there is no need to distinguish between GigE Vision or USB3 Vision devices, as 
the eBUS SDK classes abstract the device type. However, when using a GigE Vision device, you must set 
a destination IP address for the image stream. In this sample, the destination is automatically set to be 
the IP address of the network interface card on the PC used to interface with the device (which is the 
most common configuration).
Also, for optimal performance over Gigabit Ethernet, it is necessary to determine the largest possible 
packet size for the connection (ideally the link would use jumbo frames — typically about 9000 bytes). 
This is the only place in the application where we check the device type.
First, we determine if the PvDevice object represents a GigE Vision device. If it is a GigE Vision device, we do 
the required configuration. If it is a USB3 Vision device, no stream configuration is required for this sample.
Jumbo frames are configured on your computer’s network interface card (NIC). For more 
information, see the operating system documentation or the Configuring Your Computer and 
Network Adapters for Best Performance Knowledge Base Article, available on the Pleora Support 
Center at supportcenter.pleora.com.
When developing your application, you may prefer to hard-code the packet size based on your 
target system, instead of using PvDeviceGEV.NegotiatePacketSize
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Code Walkthrough: Acquiring Images with the eBUS SDK – 21
5.7.1 Python
def configure_stream(device, stream):
      # If this is a GigE Vision device, configure GigE Vision specific streaming parameters
      if isinstance(device, eb.PvDeviceGEV):
         # Negotiate packet size
         device.NegotiatePacketSize()
         # Configure device streaming destination
         device.SetStreamDestination(stream.GetLocalIPAddress(), stream.GetLocalPort())
5.8 The configure_stream_buffers Function
configure_stream_buffers allocates memory for the received images.
PvStream contains two buffer queues: an “input” queue and an “output” queue. First, we add PvBuffer 
objects to the input queue of the PvStream object by calling PvStream.QueueBuffer once per buffer. As 
images are received, PvStream populates the PvBuffers with images and moves them from the input 
queue to the output queue. The populated PvBuffers are removed from the output queue by the 
application (using PvStream.RetrieveBuffer), processed, and returned to the input queue (using 
PvStream.QueueBuffer).
The memory allocated for PvBuffer objects is based on the resolution of the image and the bit depth of 
the pixels (the payload) retrieved from the device using PvDevice.GetPayloadSize. The device returns 
the number of bytes required to hold one buffer, based on the configuration of the device.
When designing applications that deal with higher frame rate streams or that run on slower 
platforms, it may be necessary to increase the BUFFER_COUNT (to give you some margin for 
performance dips when you cannot process buffers fast enough for a short period). This allows 
the application to avoid a scenario where all buffers are in the output queue awaiting retrieval, 
and none are available in the input queue to store newly-received images.
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Code Walkthrough: Acquiring Images with the eBUS SDK – 22
5.8.1 Python
def configure_stream_buffers(device, stream):
      buffer_list = []
      # Reading payload size from device
      size = device.GetPayloadSize()
      # Use BUFFER_COUNT or the maximum number of buffers, whichever is smaller
      buffer_count = stream.GetQueuedBufferMaximum()
      if buffer_count > BUFFER_COUNT:
         buffer_count = BUFFER_COUNT
      # Allocate buffers
      for i in range(buffer_count):
           # Create new pvbuffer object
           pvbuffer = eb.PvBuffer()
          # Have the new pvbuffer object allocate payload memory
          pvbuffer.Alloc(size)
          # Add to external list - used to eventually release the buffers
          buffer_list.append(pvbuffer)
      # Queue all buffers in the stream
      for pvbuffer in buffer_list:
            stream.QueueBuffer(pvbuffer)
      print(f"Created {buffer_count} buffers")
      return buffer_list
5.9 The acquire_images Function
In the acquire_images function method, we acquire images from the device.
First the sample retrieves an array of GenICam features that will be used to control the device. These 
features are defined in the GenICam XML file that is present on all GigE Vision and USB3 Vision devices. 
Then, it maps two GenICam commands from the array to local variables that will be used later to start 
and stop the stream.
Next, it retrieves an array of GenICam features that represent the stream parameters. It maps two 
GenICam floating point values that represent stream statistics, which will later be used to display the 
data rate and bandwidth during image acquisition.
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Code Walkthrough: Acquiring Images with the eBUS SDK – 23
5.9.1 Python
def acquire_images(device, stream):
      # Get device parameters need to control streaming
      device_params = device.GetParameters()
      # Map the GenICam AcquisitionStart and AcquisitionStop commands
      start = device_params.Get("AcquisitionStart")
      stop = device_params.Get("AcquisitionStop")
      # Get stream parameters
      stream_params = stream.GetParameters()
      # Map a few GenICam stream stats counters
     frame_rate = stream_params.Get("AcquisitionRate")
     bandwidth = stream_params[ "Bandwidth" ]
…
To start the image stream, we enable streaming on the device (PvDevice.StreamEnable) and execute 
the GenICam AcquisitionStart command (start).
5.9.2 Python
# Enable streaming and send the AcquisitionStart command
       print("Enabling streaming and sending AcquisitionStart command.")
       device.StreamEnable()
       start.Execute()
In the next section, we set up a doodle that will indicate to the user that images are being acquired. The 
doodle will animate every time a buffer is returned using RetrieveBuffer (regardless of whether we got 
an image or a timeout) until the user presses a key. We also initialize variables to access GenICam 
statistics (block count, acquisition rate, and bandwidth) that were retrieved earlier.
Next, we start the loop, retrieve the first PvBuffer, and check the results. When we retrieve the PvBuffer 
object, we remove it temporarily from the PvStream output buffer queue and process it. When 
processing is complete, we add the PvBuffer object back into the input buffer queue.
To verify that a buffer has been retrieved successfully from the stream object and to verify the 
acquisition of an image, we examine the two values supplied by RetrieveBuffer. First, we check the 
value of a PvResult object (result) to determine that a buffer has been retrieved. If a buffer has been 
For GigE Vision devices, StreamEnable sets the TLParamsLocked feature, which prevents 
changes to the streaming related parameters during image acquisition.
For USB3 Vision devices, it sets the TLParamsLocked feature, configures the USB driver for 
streaming, and sets the stream enable bit on the device.
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Code Walkthrough: Acquiring Images with the eBUS SDK – 24
retrieved, then it checks the value of the PvResult object (operational_result) to verify the acquisition 
operation (for example, it checks if the operation timed out, had too many resends, or was aborted.)
5.9.3 Python
print("\n<press a key to stop streaming>") kb.start()
while not kb.is_stopping():
      # Retrieve next pvbuffer
      result, pvbuffer, operational_result = stream.RetrieveBuffer(1000)
      if result.IsOK():
         if operational_result.IsOK():
              #
              # We now have a valid pvbuffer. This is where you would typically process the pvbuffer.
                   # 
- ........................................................................................................................................................................
                  # ...
              result, frame_rate_val = frame_rate.GetValue()
              result, bandwidth_val = bandwidth.GetValue()
               print(f"{doodle[doodle_index]} BlockID: {pvbuffer.GetBlockID()}", end='')
              payload_type = pvbuffer.GetPayloadType()
Now that we have obtained a PvBuffer with an image, we display some general statistics retrieved from 
the device, including block ID, width, height, and bandwidth. This is the point at which your application 
would typically process the buffer. Then, we discard the image and requeue the PvBuffer object in the 
input queue by calling PvStream.QueueBuffer.
It is important to note that the stream may not contain an image, so we use the PvPayloadType 
enumeration to check that an image is included. For example, PvPayloadType can be 
PvPayloadTypeImage, PvPayloadTypeUndefined (an undefined or non-initialized payload type), or 
PvPayloadTypeChunk, PvPayloadTypeRawData, or PvPayloadTypeMultiPart.
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Code Walkthrough: Acquiring Images with the eBUS SDK – 25
5.9.4 Python
if payload_type == eb.PvPayloadTypeImage:
     image = pvbuffer.GetImage
     image_data = image.GetDataPointer()
     print(f" W: {image.GetWidth()} H: {image.GetHeight()} ", end='')
     if opencv_is_available:
          if image.GetPixelType() == eb.PvPixelMono8:
             display_image = True
          if image.GetPixelType() == eb.PvPixelRGB8:
             image_data = cv2.cvtColor(image_data, cv2.COLOR_RGB2BGR)
             display_image = True
          if display_image:
          cv2.imshow("stream",image_data)
          else:
                if not warning_issued:
                   # display a message that video only display for Mono8 / RGB8 images
                   print(f" ")
          print(f" Currently only Mono8 / RGB8 images are displayed", end='\r')
                     print(f"")
                     warning_issued = True
          if cv2.waitKey(1) & 0xFF != 0xFF:
               break
elif payload_type == eb.PvPayloadTypeChunkData:
print(f" Chunk Data payload type with {pvbuffer.GetChunkCount()} chunks", end='')
elif payload_type == eb.PvPayloadTypeRawData:
print(f" Raw Data with {pvbuffer.GetRawData().GetPayloadLength()} bytes", end='')
elif payload_type == eb.PvPayloadTypeMultiPart:
print(f" Multi Part with {pvbuffer.GetMultiPartContainer().GetPartCount()} parts", end='')
else:
print(" Payload type not supported by this sample", end='')
If operational_result returns something other than OK, a PvBuffer object has been retrieved, but it is not 
valid (for example, only part of the image could be retrieved or a timeout occurred). In this case, an error 
message is presented and we also re-queue the PvBuffer object back to the PvStream object so it can 
be used again.
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Code Walkthrough: Acquiring Images with the eBUS SDK – 26
5.9.5 Python
        else:
         # Non OK operational result
         print(f"{doodle[ doodle_index ]} {operational_result.GetCodeString()}        ", end='\r')
  # Re-queue the pvbuffer in the stream object
  stream.QueueBuffer(pvbuffer)
...
If result returns something other than OK, a PvBuffer object was not retrieved and therefore there is 
no PvBuffer to requeue. In this case the error message is also presented to the user.
5.9.6 Python
       else:
        # Retrieve pvbuffer failure
        print(f"{doodle[ doodle_index ]} {result.GetCodeString()}    ", end='\r')
doodle_index = (doodle_index + 1) % 6
The remainder of the sample is used to stop acquisition and clean up resources when the user presses 
a key. First, we execute the GenICam AcquisitionStop command (stop). Then, we disable the stream.
5.9.7 Python
kb.stop()
  if opencv_is_available:
     cv2.destroyAllWindows()
     # Tell the device to stop sending images.
     print("\nSending AcquisitionStop command to the device")
     stop.Execute()
     # Disable streaming on the device
     print("Disable streaming on the controller.")
     device.StreamDisable()
For GigE Vision devices, StreamDisable resets the TLParamsLocked feature, which allows 
changes to the streaming related parameters to occur.
For USB3 Vision devices, StreamDisable resets the TLParamsLocked feature and sets the 
stream enable bit on the device.
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Code Walkthrough: Acquiring Images with the eBUS SDK – 27
Now that streaming has stopped, we mark all of the buffers in the input queue as aborted 
(using PvStream.AbortQueuedBuffers), which moves the buffers to the output queue.
5.9.8 Python
# Abort all buffers from the stream and dequeue
       print("Aborting buffers still in stream")
       stream.AbortQueuedBuffers()
       while stream.GetQueuedBufferCount() > 0:
            result, pvbuffer, lOperationalResult = stream.RetrieveBuffer()
If your application does not abort queued buffers, your application will receive timeout errors when you 
restart PvStream, since the buffers in the input queue will have exceeded the timeout value.
Finally, we remove all of the buffers from the queue (using PvStream.RetrieveBuffer) so they can be 
requeued the next time the stream is enabled.
For PvStreamGEV objects, before resuming streaming after a pause, you should flush the queue 
using PvStreamGEV.FlushPacketQueue which removes all unprocessed UDP packets from the 
data receiver.
While our sample does not necessarily require that we abort and remove the buffers from the 
queue (because we do not restart PvStream in this sample), it is included in this sample to 
illustrate the concept of clearing buffers.
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Troubleshooting – 28
6 Troubleshooting
This chapter provides you with troubleshooting tips and recommended solutions for issues that can 
occur when using the eBUS SDK Python API, GigE Vision, and USB3 Vision devices.
6.1 Troubleshooting Tips
The scenarios and known issues listed in this chapter are those that you might encounter during the 
setup and operation of your device. Not all possible scenarios and errors are presented. The symptoms, 
possible causes, and resolutions depend upon your particular setup, and operation.
Table 4: Troubleshooting Tips
Symptom Possible 
cause
Resolution
SDK cannot 
detect or 
connect to the 
Pleora device
Power not 
supplied to 
the device, or 
inadequate 
power 
supplied
Both the detection and connection to the device will fail if adequate 
power is not supplied to the device.
Verify that the Network LED is active. For information about the LEDs, 
see the documentation accompanying the device.
Re-try the connection to the device with your application.
Not all scenarios and solutions are listed here. You can refer to the Pleora Technologies Support 
Center at supportcenter.pleora.com for additional support and assistance. Details for creating a 
customer account are available on the Pleora Technologies Support Center.
Refer to the product release notes that are available on the Pleora Technologies Support Center 
for known issues and other product features.
If you perform the resolution for your issue and the issue is not corrected, we recommend you 
review the other resolutions listed in this table. Some symptoms may be interrelated.
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Troubleshooting – 29
The GigE 
Vision device 
is not 
connected to 
the network
Verify that the network LED is active. If this LED is illuminated, check 
the LEDs on your network switch to ensure the switch is functioning 
properly. If the problem continues, connect the device directly to the 
computer to verify its operation. For information about the LEDs, see 
the documentation accompanying the device.
The GigE 
Vision device 
and computer 
are not on the 
same subnet
Images might not appear in your application if the GigE Vision device 
and the computer running your application are not on the same 
subnet. Ensure that these devices are on the same subnet. In 
addition, ensure that these devices are connected using valid 
gateway and subnet mask information. You can view the IP address 
information in the Available Devices list in your application. A red 
icon appears beside the device if there is an invalid IP configuration.
SDK cannot 
detect the API 
or transmitter
NIC that is 
receiving and 
NIC that is 
transmitting 
are on 
different 
subnets
Ensure the transmitting and receiving NICs are on the same subnet.
Errors appear For GigE 
Vision 
devices, the 
drivers for 
your NIC may 
not be the 
latest version
Ensure you have installed the latest drivers from the manufacturer of 
your NIC.
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Troubleshooting – 30
SDK is able to 
connect, but no 
images appear 
in your 
application.
In a multicast 
GigE Vision 
configuration, 
images appear 
on a display 
monitor 
connected to a 
vDisplay HDI- 
Pro External 
Frame Grabber 
but do not 
appear in your 
application.
In a multicast 
configuration, 
the device 
may not be 
configured 
correctly
Images only appear on the display if you have configured the device 
for a multicast network configuration. The device and all multicast 
receivers must have identical values for both the GevSCDA and 
GevSCPHostPort features in the TransportLayerControl section. For 
more information, see the documentation accompanying the device.
In a multicast 
configuration, 
your 
computer’s 
firewall may 
be blocking 
your 
application
Ensure that your application is allowed to communicate through the 
firewall.
Anti-virus 
software or 
firewalls 
blocking 
transmission
Images might not appear in your application because of anti-virus 
software or firewalls on your network. Disable all virus scanning 
software and firewalls, and re-attempt a connection to the device 
with your application.
Ensure jumbo 
packets are 
properly 
configured for 
the NIC
Enable jumbo packet support for the NIC and network switch (as 
required). If the NIC or network switch does not support jumbo 
packets, disable jumbo packets for the transmitter.
Dropped 
packets: eBUS 
Player, or 
applications 
created using 
the eBUS SDK
Insufficient 
computer 
performance
The computer being used to receive images from the device may not 
perform well enough to handle the data rate of the image stream. 
The GigE Vision driver reduces the amount of computer resources 
required to receive images and is recommended for applications that 
require high throughput. Should the application continue to drop 
packets even after the installation of the GigE Vision driver, a 
computer with better performance may be required.
eBUS SDK 6.x - eBUS SDK Python API Quick Start Guide
Doc ID: QSG-0010 - Troubleshooting – 31
Insufficient 
NIC 
performance
The NIC being used to receive images from the GigE Vision device 
may not perform well enough to handle the data rate of the image 
stream. For example, the bus connecting the NIC to the CPU may not 
be fast enough, or certain default settings on the NIC may not be 
appropriate for reception of a high-throughput image stream. 
Examples of NIC settings that may need to be reconfigured include 
the number of Rx Descriptors and the maximum size of Ethernet 
packets (jumbo packets).
Additionally, some NICs are known to not work well in high-
throughput applications.
For information about maximizing the performance of your system, 
see the Configuring Your Computer and Network Adapters for Best 
Performance Application Note, available on the Pleora Support 
Center.
Technical Support
On the Pleora Support Center, you can:
 Download the latest software and firmware.
 Log a support issue.
 View documentation for current and past releases.
 Browse for solutions to problems other customers have encountered.
 Read knowledge base articles for information about common tasks.
To visit the Pleora Support Center:
 Go to supportcenter.pleora.com.
 Most material is available without logging in to a Support Center account.
 To access software and firmware downloads, in addition to other content, log in to the Support 
Center.
 If you do not have an account, click Request Account.
 Accounts are usually validated within one business day.
Copyright Information
Copyright © 2026 Pleora Technologies Inc.
These products are not intended for use in life support appliances, devices, or systems where malfunction of 
these products can reasonably be expected to result in personal injury. Pleora Technologies Inc. (Pleora) 
customers using or selling these products for use in such applications do so at their own risk and agree to 
indemnify Pleora for any damages resulting from such improper use or sale.
Trademarks
VIVOEPlayer, PureGEV, eBUS, iPORT, vDisplay, AutoGEV, AutoGen, AI Gateway, eBUS Studio, Vaira and all 
product logos are trademarks of Pleora Technologies. Third party copyrights and trademarks are the 
property of their respective owners.
Notice of Rights
All information provided in this manual is believed to be accurate and reliable. No responsibility is assumed 
by Pleora for its use. Pleora reserves the right to make changes to this information without notice. 
Redistribution of this manual in whole or in part, by any means, is prohibited without obtaining prior 
permission from Pleora.
Document ID: QSG-0010